---
layout: default
title: Proposal
---

## Background & Significance
The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted the lives of many all over the world. It has caused many people to put their lives on pause to protect themselves and their loved ones. Coronavirus disease 2019, also known as Covid-19 is an extremely common cause of colds and upper respiratory infections. It includes similar symptoms as the common cold would present such as fever, dry cough, fatigue, nasal congestion, sore throat, headache, muscle or joint pain, chills or dizziness (4). However, Covid-19 has been known to present other unique symptoms such as loss of taste, loss of smell, and shortness of breath (4). The severity of these symptoms will depend on how an individual's immune system will respond to the virus. It affects different people in different ways. While some may be in need of ventilators and oxygen tanks, others will be asymptomatic and not aware they have the virus. Even though anyone can get infected by the virus, people over 60 years old and those with underlying health conditions are at a higher risk of becoming seriously ill.

Taking the appropriate precautions to protect yourself and not spread the virus is crucial. Covid-19 is passed through respiratory droplets that come from the nose or mouth by sneezing or coughing (4). There is a greater risk of getting the virus in places where there are large crowds close together. Due to this fact, there has been shut down of many places to contain the spread. School and non-essential businesses have switched over to virtual meetings in order to flatten the curve. The best way to protect oneself from the virus is by social distancing, wearing a mask, washing your hands and avoiding crowded places. Testing is also crucial once one develops any of the common symptoms. Following the recommended incubation period of testing 5-7 days after being exposed or having symptoms will present accurate results (4).

Often times, individuals show no/mild symptoms of infection but could have come in contact with the virus. Screening is important since it aims to identify these seemingly ‘healthy’ individuals. Screening can include, but not limited to, asking about international travel or contact with diagnosed covid cases. Screenings can be completed online, over the phone, in person, at airports or at schools. As such, screening is easy to complete and access. Other important aspects of daily check-in’s include reinforcing intentions of care and giving insight into how to support individual students better.

## Existing Solutions and Gap Analysis
At the height of the Covid-19 breakout there was a challenging task that many schools had to endure and that was having to come up with a way to protect their student’s well-being. For the University of California Irvine, there was a huge possibility that students would be living on campus despite the pandemic and relocating to locations other than the school may not have been ideal. As of August 25, 2020 the school implemented plans to instruct the fall 2021 quarter on campus. In order to have a successful transition back into the pre-covid lifestyle, there needs to be strict protocol and regulations. These regulations will include appropriate measures to assure the health of UC Irvine's students are top priority such as pre-screening.
#### UCI Student Daily Symptom Monitoring
The current system to monitor Covid systems involves sending daily emails to all UCI students. The students then reply to the email in order to receive another confirmation email. There are some two obvious problems with this solution. First, guests who visit the campus without a UCI email will not be monitored using this system. This could make contact tracing more difficult if Covid-19 cases emerge on campus. Second, the system only records a response at one point during the day and lacks flexibility to adjust to changes throughout the day. For instance, students who feel well at the start of the day but develop symptoms later may wait until the following day to report the symptoms.
#### Checkin
UCI has had an online check-in system which is used for standard attendance. Students would log into their accounts, select their course, and type in the password provided by their professor. The system includes an option to track the location of students to ensure they are on campus. However, the Checkin lacks the flexibility to act as a Covid monitoring system. It only requests a class and password, and can’t prompt the user to complete a survey. In addition, it requires a UCI account removing the accessibility for guests on campus.
#### Gap Analysis
Creation of a prescreening tool was key to the reopening of physician’s practices.4 Effective teletriage, provided by the tool, kept patients safe while putting patients in the correct care path. Patients would be redirected to a Covid-19 testing site, hospital or a telehealth session depending on their individual needs and situation. This would help traffic the patients effectively while following all the CDC guidelines. “The information collected from a well-designed pre-visit screening questionnaire can be part of an effort to reduce community spread of COVID-19,” states Robezneiks from the AMA. Answers were kept confidential and reviewed by a clinician if the patient answered, “yes,” to any questions.

In our research, there was not enough data to prove the efficacy of a prescreening questionnaire. However the tool was said to be more sustainable than laboratory testing. A study was conducted on pregnant women admitted to a  maternity hospital in New York, USA. The women filled out a prescreening questionnaire. “Out of the 215 women admitted, 33 women were infected, of whom only 4 showed symptoms,” these findings suggested only a reliable test can recognize infected cases.5  The prescreening questionnaire was found to be less effective than the nasal swab, but more sustainable. Hence it can be considered effective in contexts with low incidence of the virus.

We conclude that screening alone will not prove to be effective in containing the spread of the virus at UCI after it’s return to in person learning. However it will be more sustainable than any other public health measure. As such we recommend a mixture of public health measures following UCI’s return to in person instruction: prescreening questionnaire, face coverings, quarantine for those who may have been exposed to the virus, repeated symptom assessments and laboratory testing.6
